README.md, before:

Release repository: https://github.com/arm-software/ComputeLibrary

Development repository: https://review.mlplatform.org/#/admin/projects/ml/ComputeLibrary

Please report issues here: https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/issues

**Make sure you are using the latest version of the library before opening an issue. Thanks**

News:

- [Gian Marco's talk on optimizing CNNs with Winograd algorithms at the EVS](https://www.embedded-vision.com/platinum-members/arm/embedded-vision-training/videos/pages/may-2018-embedded-vision-summit-iodice)
- [Gian Marco's talk on using SGEMM and FFTs to Accelerate Deep Learning](https://www.embedded-vision.com/platinum-members/arm/embedded-vision-training/videos/pages/may-2016-embedded-vision-summit-iodice)

Related projects:

- [Arm NN SDK](https://github.com/arm-software/armnn)
- [Tutorial: Cartoonifying Images on Raspberry Pi with the Compute Library](https://community.arm.com/graphics/b/blog/posts/cartoonifying-images-on-raspberry-pi-with-the-compute-library)
- [Tutorial: Running AlexNet on Raspberry Pi with Compute Library](https://community.arm.com/processors/b/blog/posts/running-alexnet-on-raspberry-pi-with-compute-library)

Documentation available here:

- [v18.11](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.11/index.xhtml)
- [v18.08](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.08/)
- [v18.05](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.05/)
- [v18.03](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.03/)
- [v18.02](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.02/)
- [v18.01](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.01/)
- [v17.12](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.12/)
- [v17.10](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.10/)
- [v17.09](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.09/)
- [v17.06](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.06/)
- [v17.05](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.05/)
- [v17.04](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.04/)
- [v17.03.1](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.03.1/)

Binaries available here:

- [v18.11-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.11/arm_compute-v18.11-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.11-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.11/arm_compute-v18.11-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.08-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.08/arm_compute-v18.08-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.08-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.08/arm_compute-v18.08-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.05-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.05/arm_compute-v18.05-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.05-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.05/arm_compute-v18.05-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.03-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.03/arm_compute-v18.03-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.03-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.03/arm_compute-v18.03-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.02-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.02/arm_compute-v18.02-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.02-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.02/arm_compute-v18.02-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.01](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.01/arm_compute-v18.01-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.12](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.12/arm_compute-v17.12-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.10](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.10/arm_compute-v17.10-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.09](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.09/arm_compute-v17.09-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.06](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.06/arm_compute-v17.06-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.05](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.05/arm_compute-v17.05-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.04](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.04/arm_compute-v17.04-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.03.1](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.03.1/arm_compute-v17.03.1-bin.tar.gz)

Contact: developer-compute@arm.com

License & Contributions: The software is provided under MIT license. Contributions to this project are accepted under the same license.

Commit message:

COMPMID-1902: Update the README in the github repository in order to include the DCO licence and the new public mailing list
Change-Id: I124c14e1df3ca11e07238c0480477fa908aa67a2
Reviewed-on: https://review.mlplatform.org/598
Reviewed-by: Isabella Gottardi <isabella.gottardi@arm.com>
Tested-by: Arm Jenkins <bsgcomp@arm.com>

README.md, after:

Release repository: https://github.com/arm-software/ComputeLibrary

Development repository: https://review.mlplatform.org/#/admin/projects/ml/ComputeLibrary

Please report issues here: https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/issues

**Make sure you are using the latest version of the library before opening an issue. Thanks**

News:

- [Gian Marco's talk on optimizing CNNs with Winograd algorithms at the EVS](https://www.embedded-vision.com/platinum-members/arm/embedded-vision-training/videos/pages/may-2018-embedded-vision-summit-iodice)
- [Gian Marco's talk on using SGEMM and FFTs to Accelerate Deep Learning](https://www.embedded-vision.com/platinum-members/arm/embedded-vision-training/videos/pages/may-2016-embedded-vision-summit-iodice)

Related projects:

- [Arm NN SDK](https://github.com/arm-software/armnn)
- [Tutorial: Cartoonifying Images on Raspberry Pi with the Compute Library](https://community.arm.com/graphics/b/blog/posts/cartoonifying-images-on-raspberry-pi-with-the-compute-library)
- [Tutorial: Running AlexNet on Raspberry Pi with Compute Library](https://community.arm.com/processors/b/blog/posts/running-alexnet-on-raspberry-pi-with-compute-library)

Documentation available here:

- [v18.11](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.11/index.xhtml)
- [v18.08](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.08/)
- [v18.05](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.05/)
- [v18.03](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.03/)
- [v18.02](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.02/)
- [v18.01](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v18.01/)
- [v17.12](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.12/)
- [v17.10](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.10/)
- [v17.09](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.09/)
- [v17.06](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.06/)
- [v17.05](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.05/)
- [v17.04](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.04/)
- [v17.03.1](https://arm-software.github.io/ComputeLibrary/v17.03.1/)

Binaries available here:

- [v18.11-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.11/arm_compute-v18.11-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.11-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.11/arm_compute-v18.11-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.08-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.08/arm_compute-v18.08-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.08-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.08/arm_compute-v18.08-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.05-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.05/arm_compute-v18.05-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.05-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.05/arm_compute-v18.05-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.03-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.03/arm_compute-v18.03-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.03-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.03/arm_compute-v18.03-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.02-linux](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.02/arm_compute-v18.02-bin-linux.tar.gz)
- [v18.02-android](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.02/arm_compute-v18.02-bin-android.tar.gz)
- [v18.01](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v18.01/arm_compute-v18.01-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.12](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.12/arm_compute-v17.12-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.10](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.10/arm_compute-v17.10-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.09](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.09/arm_compute-v17.09-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.06](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.06/arm_compute-v17.06-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.05](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.05/arm_compute-v17.05-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.04](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.04/arm_compute-v17.04-bin.tar.gz)
- [v17.03.1](https://github.com/ARM-software/ComputeLibrary/releases/download/v17.03.1/arm_compute-v17.03.1-bin.tar.gz)

License & Contributions: The software is provided under MIT license. Contributions to this project are accepted under the same license.

### Public mailing list
For technical discussion, the ComputeLibrary project has a public mailing list: acl-dev@lists.linaro.org
The list is open to anyone inside or outside of Arm to self subscribe.  In order to subscribe, please visit the following website:
https://lists.linaro.org/mailman/listinfo/acl-dev

### Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)
Before the ComputeLibrary project accepts your contribution, you need to certify its origin and give us your permission. To manage this process we use the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) V1.1 (https://developercertificate.org/)

To indicate that you agree to the the terms of the DCO, you "sign off" your contribution by adding a line with your name and e-mail address to every git commit message:

```Signed-off-by: John Doe <john.doe@example.org>```

You must use your real name, no pseudonyms or anonymous contributions are accepted.
